feat: Theme config validation (#10856)
shopware/platform: changelog/_unreleased/2025-06-27-add-theme-config-validation.md

---
title: Add validation for theme configuration
issue: #10679
---
# Storefront

> * Added new method `validateThemeConfig()` to `ThemeService.php` for validating theme configuration changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added new method `validateThemeConfig` to `\Shopware\Storefront\Theme\ThemeService` for validating theme configuration changes.
```

the FQCN suits better in the changelog, imo

> * Added new boolean parameter `validate` to API route `/api/_action/theme/{themeId}` in `ThemeController.php` which will activate the config validation on theme update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added new boolean parameter `validate` to API route `/api/_action/theme/{themeId}` in `\Shopware\Storefront\Theme\Controller\ThemeController` which will activate the config validation on theme update.
```

> * Added new boolean parameter `sanitize` to API route `/api/_action/theme/{themeId}` in `ThemeController.php` which will activate config sanitization during validation. Only applies if `validate` is set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added new boolean parameter `sanitize` to API route `/api/_action/theme/{themeId}` in `\Shopware\Storefront\Theme\Controller\ThemeController` which will activate config sanitization during validation. Only applies if `validate` is set.
```
